What precisely do we mean by software engineering? What distinguishes “software engineering” from “programming” or “computer science”? And why would Google have a unique perspective to add to the corpus of previous software engineering literature written over the past 50 years?
 
The terms “programming” and “software engineering” have been used interchangeably for quite some time in our industry, although each term has a different emphasis and different implications. University students tend to study computer science and get jobs writing code as “programmers.”
 
“Software engineering,” however, sounds more serious, as if it implies the application of some theoretical knowledge to build something real and precise. Mechanical engineers, civil engineers, aeronautical engineers, and those in other engineering disciplines all practice engineering. They all work in the real world and use the application of their theoretical knowledge to create something real. Software engineers also create “something real,” though it is less tangible than the things other engineers create.
 
Unlike those more established engineering professions, current software engineering theory or practice is not nearly as rigorous. Aeronautical engineers must follow rigid guidelines and practices, because errors in their calculations can cause real damage; programming, on the whole, has traditionally not followed such rigorous practices. But, as software becomes more integrated into our lives, we must adopt and rely on more rigorous engineering methods. We hope this book helps others see a path toward more reliable software practices

Resumo 1: o trecho aborda algumas diferenças entre como são chamadas a ciência da computação e a engenharia de software. O termo Engenharia de Software traz mais seriedade pois é possivel pensar sobre outras engenharias que são essencias para o mundo e que trazem dados e deretrizes rigorosas, visto que, qualqueis erros podem trazer danos reias. Embora ao princípio um erro na engenahria de software pode não trazer esses danos reais, ao se desenvolver como necessária no dias atuais, esses erros também são levados em conta.

Programming Over Time
We propose that “software engineering” encompasses not just the act of writing code, but all of the tools and processes an organization uses to build and maintain that code over time. What practices can a software organization introduce that will best keep its code valuable over the long term? How can engineers make a codebase more sustainable and the software engineering discipline itself more rigorous? We don’t have fundamental answers to these questions, but we hope that Google’s collective experience over the past two decades illuminates possible paths toward finding those answers.
 
One key insight we share in this book is that software engineering can be thought of as “programming integrated over time.” What practices can we introduce to our code to make it sustainable—able to react to necessary change—over its life cycle, from conception to introduction to maintenance to deprecation?
 
The book emphasizes three fundamental principles that we feel software organizations should keep in mind when designing, architecting, and writing their code:
 
Time and Change
How code will need to adapt over the length of its life
 
Scale and Growth
How an organization will need to adapt as it evolves
 
Trade-offs and Costs
How an organization makes decisions, based on the lessons of Time and Change and Scale and Growth

Resumo 2: O trecho aborda as ferramentas necessárias para manter um código na engenharia de software, além de refletir sobre as maneiras de como um programador pode manter o código sustentável e valioso durante o tempo. Além de citar três princípios fundamentais que as organizações de software devem ter em mente ao projetar, arquitetar e escrever seu código, como Tempo e Mudança, Escala e crescimento, e Compensações e custos.

Exemplos de trade-off: Simplicidade de uma estrutura x Escabilidade:
Uma estrutura de software simples pode gerar menos gastos por ser mais simples de ser controlada e mantida, entretanto, com a escabilidade, essa estrutura se torna mais complexa.

Custo de desenvolvimento x Funcionalidade:
um simples código pode ser mais fácil de ser mantido mas menos funcional, entretanto, ao adicionar funcionalidades ao código, o tempo de desenvolvimento e os custos aumentam.
